# Exporting Variables

The challenge was to demonstrate the difference between a local shell variable and an exported environment variable, which is visible to child processes.

-----

## My Solve

**Flag:** `pwn.college{ATsHjZNBAbYDPUUXTNzfJtXbVos.QXyYTN0wSO0AzNzEzW}`

1.  First, I created two local shell variables using `PWN=COLLEGE` and `COLLEGE=PWN`.
2.  Next, I used the **`export PWN`** command. This command upgraded the `PWN` variable from a local shell variable to an **environment variable**. The `COLLEGE` variable was left as a local variable.
3.  Finally, I executed `/challenge/run`. As a new "child" process, this program inherited the exported `PWN` variable from my shell's environment but could not see the local `COLLEGE` variable. This met the specific conditions of the challenge.

<!-- end list -->

```bash
hacker@variables~exporting-variables:~$ PWN=COLLEGE
You've set the PWN variable to the proper value!
hacker@variables~exporting-variables:~$ COLLEGE=PWN
You've set the PWN variable to the proper value!
You've set the COLLEGE variable to the proper value!
hacker@variables~exporting-variables:~$ export PWN
You've set the PWN variable to the proper value!
You've set the COLLEGE variable to the proper value!
hacker@variables~exporting-variables:~$ /challenge/run
CORRECT!
You have exported PWN=COLLEGE and set, but not exported, COLLEGE=PWN. Great 
job! Here is your flag:
pwn.college{ATsHjZNBAbYDPUUXTNzfJtXbVos.QXyYTN0wSO0AzNzEzW}
You've set the PWN variable to the proper value!
You've set the COLLEGE variable to the proper value!
```

-----

## What I learned

There are two main types of variables in a shell environment:

  * **Shell Variables:** These are local to the current shell session. They are **not** passed on to any new programs (child processes) that you start from that shell.
  * **Environment Variables:** These variables are also available in the current shell, but they are specifically marked to be **inherited by child processes**.

The **`export`** command is the tool used to promote a regular shell variable to an environment variable, making it visible to other programs you run.

-----

## References

NONE.